import ImageLink from "@/components/Main/ImageLink";
import VideoLink from "@/components/Main/VideoLink";

<img src="https://maxrchung.com/favicon.ico" />

Once again I've rewritten my `maxrchung.com` website. In the beginning, there
was just HTML and CSS. Then, there was a Rails remake. And now, we're at
Next.js.

- Made by: Max Chung
- Made with: Next.js, Evergreen, AWS Amplify
- Repository: [maxrchung-next](https://github.com/maxrchung/maxrchung-next),
  [maxrchung-rails-cdk](https://github.com/maxrchung/maxrchung-rails-cdk),
  [maxrchung-next-cdk](https://github.com/maxrchung/maxrchung-next-cdk)

So, I was laid off unfortunately. I don't think it was due to any performance
reasons, but just an unlucky situation where my team was disproportionately
impacted by company layoffs. Lots of good folks affected, really an unfortunate
situation. I'm in an okay spot though. I'm fine financially for a while, so
maybe having a bit of a break is a good thing all things considered.

But it's been probably a couple weeks to a month for me now. I submitted maybe
like 20 to 30 apps but only got a few rejections so far. Maybe it's a bad time
right now since tech layoffs are so widespread. I definitely need to brush up on
my technical interview skills though so I'm probably not in a huge rush. At
least, I don't feel like I have confidence in my interviewee abilities. It's
hard trying to study for it, but I'll try my best daily.

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/MaojinLee/status/1750043804382691672"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GElnjzfaoAALVhz?format=jpg&name=small"
/>

On top of interview prep stuff I'm also doing various side projects, to keep me
busy if anything. First thing on my list was to remake this site. I think moving
my site to Next.js just makes sense, given my web background. I'm much more
familiar and experienced with React now, so that's the kind of stack I should
focus on. Rails is pretty outdated these days I think. I mean, I guess server
rendered pages is still a thing but I could also just do that in Next.js if I
wanted to.

I'm using Next.js SSG (static site generation). Basically, I generate a bunch of
static website files instead of running a web server. Financially it should save
me money because I'm just hosting static pages instead of a server. But in
practice that's not really what happens, because I can run multiple server
containers on a Fargate machine. Alternatively, I could have containerized a
Next.js server and put it on Fargate, but I think the simplicity of SSG is nice.
It also frees up my Fargate for other things.

There's also a number of annoying things that I didn't like with the Rails site.
The first problem was that after moving the Rails site to AWS, I had some issues
with API calls redirecting to a bad link. The call was successful, but the
response page was incorrect. I think this was due to how I set up my NGINX
proxy. This happened on every edit operation so it was quite annoying. Editing
things also in general was a pain because I didn't have something like markdown
to easily write things. I basically wrote raw HTML for every single post and
man, that's a lot of `<p></p>` tags that add up over time.

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/KarinHosono/status/1751228280731312569"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GE2c1gwaEAAj5dp?format=jpg&name=small"
/>

These are all pretty much fixed with the new site. Now, I'm using Next.js's
integration with MDX for all my pages. Markdown definitely feels easier to work
with but I'm still finding the best Markdown setup. I'm using a VSCode spell
check plugin and text wrap tools for instance. Next.js is also easier for me to
deploy. I have this site hooked up with Amplify. Amplify detects any pushes to
the `maxrchung-next` repo and automatically builds/deploys a new site for me. No
container management or manual publish necessary.

There is one thing I miss though. If I wanted to add media to the old Rails
site, it was a simple operation to drag images or videos into the web page.
Rails would then handle uploading and managing content to S3. Now, I have to
upload to S3 manually which can be a bit more cumbersome with 2FA and whatnot. I
guess I could make an S3 utility, but I honestly don't think it'd save me that
much convenience. Maybe I'll consider it as a future project.

## Next.js (and Evergreen)

Okay, so why Next.js in the first place? I've actually used it before for
another static site so it's not like I'm starting from zero. I do kind of want
to choose another library just to see how things are. I was considering Gatsby,
but I've honestly just seen pretty mixed reviews of it compared to Next.js. It
feels like everyone just suggests Next.js these days, for reason.

The real reason is kind of a meme, but one of the sites my previous team worked
on used Next.js and Evergreen. I actually never really got too much exposure
into that project, but I wanted to look more into its tech stack. Recently it
seems Next.js updated to using their new App Router. I wanted to try that out,
and Next.js never gave me much problems in the past, so why not use it again.

Evergreen was also pretty cool when I read through its pretty short docs. It has
some interesting ideas with its [ui-box
model](https://github.com/segmentio/ui-box) that allows for flexible component
creation. I think it's similar to Chakra UI, which I looked into, was debating
to use use, and which I now regret not using now. And that's because after
implementing everything using Evergreen, I seem to have only then realized that
Evergreen [may be dead](https://github.com/segmentio/evergreen/issues/1669).

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/xuejiye66/status/1753632501556453478"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GFYndgPaYAAdDBU?format=jpg&name=small"
/>

Well that sucks. I'm actually kind of tightly integrated with Evergreen. It's
not impossible to change to another component library, but I'll need to update
components and change out MDX to React mapping. Maybe I should just write all my
components from scratch so I don't have to think about this kind of thing.
Whatever, at least for now Evergreen's fine for my needs, and I like it enough.
For the foreseeable future I'll keep on using it.

## Migration

In moving from Rails to this new site, I made a number of changes. Design-wise,
I switched from a pink colored theme to a yellowish one. I've decided to go
all-in on [The Boy](https://maxrchung.com/projects/theboy), and theme the whole
site on it. The website icon is now The Boy and the website colors reflect it
more closely. I decided not to create custom colored links like the old site and
just rely on what Evergreen provides, simple blue links.

I recreated the top menu bar using Evergreen components. Evergreen interestingly
has a bit of a smaller font than maybe I'd like. It's `14px` by default which is
definitely smaller than the `16px` I used before. Maybe it's too small, but
they're the experts, so if that's what they want to use for their default size
I'll go ahead stick with that. I think it's something I'll get used to but maybe
when I do probably end up redoing this site again, I'll think about upping the
size.

I started getting into MDX with the home page and about page. I like working in
MDX and having the freedom to jump to React if I want to. I struggle a bit
phrasing things so my about section actually took some time, at least
content-wise. I'll probably revise it more as time goes on. One thing I added
was a React PDF reader. I felt it could be useful if I just show my resume
directly in the page and was able to do that after some tinkering.

Then I started migrating blogs and projects. This was actually kind of
complicated, and I predicted that, but for the most part it was straightforward
enough to work with. Basically, since this site used to be server rendered, my
blog posts and project posts were all stored in a DB. So I wrote some scripts to
fetch them out of the DB, convert them from HTML to MDX, then put them into a
directory. You can see some of my scripts
[here](https://github.com/maxrchung/maxrchung-next/tree/main/converters).

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/sungmoomoo/status/1751913303532851585"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GFAL3KEbQAAYrF8?format=jpg&name=small"
/>

The complicated part of this came from the fact that HTML to MDX conversion
needed some massaging to work. I had a lot of, for example `<p
class="caption"></p>` tags that needed to be specially handled and kept with the
`caption` class. There were also img/video/audio/iframe tags that I wanted to
keep as HTML. So I tried to keep most of the special HTML intact and copied over
some old styling to support that.

For the most part, things look relatively similar to before. I still have the
middle column layout. I tried to make spacing similarly dynamic like before,
where there are deviations in spacing for headers, lists, paragraphs, etc. For
example, headers have a larger top spacing than bottom spacing so that I think
it's easier to tie a header and its section together. The styling can get a bit
gnarly on this. By default, there is a `flex gap` set on all elements in the
main column. Then each element that can adjust the spacing with negative
margins. Probably not the prettiest way to handle it, but it's usable for me.

Once I got blogs working with all of its special media elements, projects was
pretty smooth to transition after. MDX did kind of run into problems on certain
posts. I think these were mostly things like unclosed tags that it complained
about. MDX kind of falls a bit short on auto-completion and error reporting.
It's not a perfect system, but I'm fine with some of its deficiencies.

And after all the projects were done I could finally deploy the site. Similar to
a number of my previous projects, I used Amplify to deploy. It's quite familiar
to me now, and I have sample CDK projects to reference. A couple of annoying
things though. One was that the base Amplify image only supported up to Node 16,
and my Next.js needed 18+. It was kind of complicated finding this out but
apparently you can specify in CDK a special environment variable `_CUSTOM_IMAGE`
to get around that. Kind of stupid, but whatever, works for me.

Another annoying thing was that I upgraded my CDK to version 2. Not too bad
since this was just refactoring but I ended up changing some parts of my
`maxrchung-cloud-cdk` to manage containers and `maxrchung-rails-cdk` to manage
Cloudfront. Oh yeah that's another thing, I added Cloudfront to
`maxrchung-rails-cdk`. Before it was just running from a public S3 but I figured
I may end up saving a bit of money if I take advantage of Cloudfront for
distribution. This way cached items can be retrieved faster and easier, I
imagine. Also, just out of laziness sake I'm not moving anything from the
`maxrchung-rails-cdk` project to `maxrchung-next-cdk`.

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/J_KMOR/status/1754698203327574255"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GFnss7taMAA06O7?format=png&name=small"
/>

And I think that's pretty much it. I like the current state, and I'll probably
use it like this for a while. But I wouldn't be surprised if maybe even a year
from now I'll rebuild this site again, next time maybe with some more fancy
custom made components. But there's honestly not too much to show here on this
website. It's mostly just a bunch of text and simple navigation. Maybe I'll work
on some web project to incorporate all of that.

Cheers, and I guess a final note is that I'm introducing linked images for this
post. Recently I've been on Twitter quite a bit so I have a lot of liked posts.
I'll bring in some of them here to break up the content.

## Twitter shenanigans

Wow, okay, so it's been a few days, and I ended up doing some funky Chrome
extension stuff. I wanted an easy way to link Twitter videos, but it's not
exactly trivial. As with most social media sites, videos are typically streamed
through a video player. Which sucks for me if I want to embed a Twitter video
into my site. Twitter does have this sort of [publish
embed](https://publish.twitter.com) feature, but it kind of sucks if I'm being honest, at least for my use case. Something something about how it's not using an `iframe` that I can easily style, or something like that. Alternatively, there are tools and browser extensions available that can
help download the video.

[youtube-dl](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl) should be able to download
it if you're looking for a CLI tool. I ended up liking the first Chrome
extension I found that solved this problem, [Twitter video
downloader](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/twitter-video-downloader/akmdionenlnfcipmdhbhcnkighafmdha).
This extension is nice because it injects a button into a Twitter post which you
can then click to download the post's video. But while this was pretty useful, I
realized I actually didn't want to download and then reupload the video to S3. It's a
bit of a hassle, and I was fine with just linking the Twitter video directly if
that was possible. Yeah s-ure, this might run into problems if the post gets deleted or
something like that, but I think I'm okay with living with that.

So I was curious, and I searched up the [source
code](https://github.com/mstfsnc/twitter-video-downloader-extension) of this
extension. I took a peek into it, and there's a lot of interesting stuff in
there that I want to talk about. So this thing works in a couple of parts. First
thing is that the extension overrides the XHR GET request so that it can spy on
requests and their responses. Specifically it wants to spy on Twitter's GraphQL
calls that are requesting Tweet details. Within these GraphQL responses, there is a
`video_info` section that gives you `mp4` links to the video content.

<ImageLink
  href="https://twitter.com/996beshi/status/1697824107113676988"
  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F4_iBmlbQAAuzIx?format=jpg&name=small"
/>

So that'll give you a list of video links. But now you have to map it to each
Twitter post. To do that, we start with a very generic check for all `<img>`
elements on the page. Then we do some filtering steps to remove most of the
unnecessary images. The ones remaining are checked to see if they map to any of
the video links we spied on before. We're looking for an image that is a video's
preview image. If there is a match, we inject a download button into the post
that the user can then click and trigger a download. Download is bit funky as
well. I think we're creating a hidden anchor element, clicking it, and then
removing the anchor. I don't know. Just web dev things.

So what I ended up doing was forking this project and then doing my own spin on
the functionality I needed. I don't think it's really worth its own project post
on this site so I'm just going to jam [my
small fork changes](https://github.com/maxrchung/twitter-video-downloader-extension/tree/copy-links)
here and call it a day. I just did a simple change so that I could use 2
buttons. One button copies the link of the Twitter post for you. And another
button copies the link of the video file. With this setup I could then
easily copy the links I needed and use them in this writeup.

This was pretty cool. It's my first exposure to Chrome extensions and browser
extensions development. I probably should have done some more deep diving into
some of the extension development docs but I just kind of winged it to get some
simple behavior I needed and relied a lot on the existing extension code from
the original repo I forked from. Anyways, to finish off on this website, I
created some simple components to take in `href` and `src` props, then showed an
image or videos. All the stuff above are just images, but here's an example of a
video clip:

<VideoLink
  href="https://twitter.com/rloubersanes/status/1749866994315223262"
  src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/GEjGcbQXYAAN9Er.mp4"
/>

Ok, for real I'm gonna leave now.
