import { Image } from "evergreen-ui";
import s3 from "@/s3";
import Caption from "@/components/Main/Caption";
import Gallery from "@/components/Main/Gallery/Gallery";
import galleryConfigs from "./theboyGalleryConfigs";

<Gallery galleryConfigs={galleryConfigs} />

The Boy is a long running project that's pretty much evolved into my personal
brand and identity. Originally, it was a one-off digital picture I drew back in
high school. But one thing's led to another and now I am Him.

I was debating even if I should put this as a project since it's not very
software related. Honestly this is more than a joke than a real thing. But
alright, here and now I officially declare this as a project. Most of this is
just custom art pieces that I've bought here and there. Not much of it required
work from myself.

Also, since I guess I am a web developer or I guess frontend engineer might be
better sounding, I'm going to create some kind of gallery-like component for all
my media posts. Might as well take advantage of React now that I've [upgraded my
site](https://maxrchung.com/projects/maxrchungnext). Also might as well do this
since I'm kind of laid off right now and should probably do some frontend
exercises. ü§™

Before I start, I'll just note that I'm not entirely sure if I'll be really
maintaining this page. Most of the stuff on here are just reposted from my
[Twitter/X](https://twitter.com/maxrchung). Maybe every once in while I'll sync
the two together, but ideally I'll probably just be posting to Twitter.

Kind of pointless, but

- Made by: Me

## Origin

Right, so let's first talk about where all this came from before seeing my
beautiful gallery that I'll definitely make. I think it was some year around
2011 that over the summer I was doing digital art. Back then I did a lot of
digital art in my free time. It was fun for me but somehow I ended up growing
out of it. These days I don't draw or do any art really at all.

I'm not really sure why. I guess I had a dream of going eventually into some art
career and doing art as a full time job, but that never really panned out as I
focused more on software and web development. I don't think I regret my path too
much. I certainly like doing what I'm doing now, and I think given my
temperament it's probably better that I ended up as an engineer than an artist.

There's just something about art that I never really got over the hump of. What
I mean is that, I didn't feel like I progressed at the right rate I wanted
despite putting in a lot of time and effort. Maybe with the right
setting/teaching/mentorship, things could be different but I think it's better
to look at the overall picture. Pick something to do that I not only have a lot
of passion about but have some talent and knack for. That's what I think
frontend is to me and what's different than art.

Well okay enough introspection. So it's sometime in 2011, and I was doing some
art at home. Here's what I eventually drew:

<Image src={s3("the-boy/origin-2011.jpg")} />
<Caption value="The Boy in the Mirror" />

Okay honestly, looking back on my [DeviantArt
page](https://www.deviantart.com/shrackner/art/The-Boy-in-the-Mirror-251767803)
for this, it's definitely a bit cringe for me. But I think it's still kind of a
unique style. I have a bit of a mixed feeling of my old drawing days. It's not
like I'm ashamed of it because I know at the time that I really enjoyed it and
really invested myself into it, and I'm not going to invalidate those feelings.
But man some of the pieces I did back in that era are a little embarrassing to
look at now.

Anyways yes, this is actually a self portrait. The original title was "The Boy
in the Mirror" because it's literally me in the mirror. I just drop the mirror
part for this project now so the title's a bit shorter. This picture was taken
in my room in my family home. The room is for the most part unchanged. Maybe
some things are slightly moved around. The chair is still there. I actually
still have the pants. But the shirt got too worn out over the years so I
eventually got rid of it. The headphones broke at some point.

If I had to critique myself, I'd say it's actually not that bad and kind of
cool. Okay which is kind of weird because I was just cringing 2 paragraphs ago.
But I think the more I look at this and get over my feelings, it's pretty
interesting. It's definitely different than the kind of anime style I drew at
the time but I wanted to try out a style of coloring head edges.

So to make this kind of style I basically did a ton of Pen tool work in
Photoshop. Everything is basically just pen tool selecting and layering over
stuff and then coloring in selected sections. I think some of the shading is a
little bit overdone like the hand section is a little crazy compared to some
more tamer parts, but overall I'd say I really like this effect. That being said
I don't think I ever made another picture in this style after this.

One compliant I have though is that the window is definitely not to proportion.
I think if the guy were to stand up he would probably be taller than the top of
the window. It's just bad perspective that I never adjusted for. I kind of suck
at perspective stuff. Oh yeah I wanted to also mention the framing. The framing
is actually the outer edge of my sliding closet door. The closet door has a
mirror over it so that was where I was looking.

Right so then after that nothing really happened for a long time. If I remember
correctly, I showed the picture to some friends and they thought that it was
maybe a bit funny but that was pretty much it. It seems like it wouldn't be
until I think 7 years later that I revisited this. I think I was looking to
switch my profile picture that I used for games after a while.

I used to use the picture below for a variety of online accounts way back in the
day. I really liked this hair over eye headphones scarf kind of anime look. This
was a super old one, looks like uploaded Nov 2010. The nice thing was thing was
that I didn't have to draw hands or half the face so it was just mostly black
and yellow blobs.

<Image src={s3("the-boy/shrackner-head.png")} />
<Caption value="Head" />

<Image src={s3("the-boy/shrackner-body.jpg")} />
<Caption value="Body" />

Ok then at some point I was browsing through vocaloid music and somehow
somewhere I ended up listening to someone named
[RUBY-CATMAN](https://vocadb.net/Ar/3396), what a name. I have no clue how I
stumbled upon his music but it's really unique and good. I think generally all
his songs are upbeat, more happy sounding electric pop kind of tunes with Miku.
He's super underrated, and I recommend all his songs. I don't know he's still
producing stuff.

Anyways I was browsing through his music videos and there was one for Êú™Êù•„ÉÜ„É¨
„Éù„Éº„ÉÜ„Éº„Ç∑„Éß„É≥ (translated: Future Teleportation). There is a split second of
the video where Miku has a funny gorilla like head, and I just found it
hilarious. So for a while I used this headshot as my profile pictures.

<Image src={s3("the-boy/future-teleportation-head.png")} />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_EO-UA4QQ1A?si=ammcb5Ww7zmJPxRc"
  title="YouTube video player"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowFullScreen
/>
<Caption value="This is a banger" />

Fast forward to probably 2018, I wanted to change my profile picture again.
People use profile pictures for different reasons and for me I guess I wanted it
to be something not only representative of me but also something I personally
created. So thinking about some of my old pictures, this one came up, and I
figured why not let's crop the head out and see how that looks.

<Image src="/the-boy.jpg" />

This face expresses many things. I think he has a very stoic, focused, and
relaxed, but also judging expression. It is me, and I did create it so why not
use it as my profile picture everywhere. So I pretty much did that and updated
all my online socials and accounts to using it. The only place I don't really
use it is maybe LinkedIn, but I'm seriously debating whether to change that too.

Sometimes it can be hard to decide what I want to separate from personal and
online life. Especially usernames, I don't really know sometimes what I want to
use there. These days I like to go by WAXCHUG as a funny joke name for some
online games, but I went by S2VX for a while since that was an important project
of mine, and I think a pretty cool name with history. But I also use maxrchung
in some places.

After changing my profile everywhere, my friends and I started using the face as
an server emote pretty much as a meme. On Discord it was added as
:daBOiindaMrrr:. Then slowly, sometimes within days, weeks, months, I started
collecting newer and newer pieces of The Boy merchandise until I have what I
have now.

At this point I could probably go into in-depth details about how every new The
Boy addition was made, but I think I want to avoid going too deep. I like making
these free form posts but it takes a lot of time, a lot of typing, and there's a
reason why I haven't done these for like the past 3 or 4 years or something. I'm
going to try something a little different and make a customized gallery of sorts
to showcase all my The Boy things.

## Gallery

I moved the gallery to the top of the post since I think that's probably where I
expect to see it more easily. Usually I keep everything chronological though so
not sure, maybe I'll the gallery down here. I'll maybe write more in this
section once I'm done because it's been pretty interesting building the gallery
so far.

Okay as usual it's been a while since I worked on the gallery but I figured I'd
try and wrap up this post on it. I'll talk about some of the implementation
details of gallery. There could be more additions to add to it but I'm satisfied
where it is. React is probably a must at this point to implement it since this
is a Next project. Except for icons though, I did not use Evergreen. So all
styling was done through SASS. I just wanted to get a bit lower level for this one.

The gallery is made up of 2 components, a `<Gallery />` for showing the gallery
of items and a `<Viewer />` for showing a single image. For gallery, I guess I
took some inspirations from Twitter/Instagram views with the 3 column layout. On
mobile, this gets shrunk to 2 columns. I used `display: grid`, which I think
makes sense since `flex` may have issues with lining up columns/rows without
forcing widths/heights.

I'm pretty bad at `grid` stuff to be honest, but I don't know how I'd dive
deeper into it. These days I feel somewhat lazy learning about new tech. Which
is not a good thing if I want to keep up my skills up, but my routine is just
work on one side project, move onto the next, and if I happen to need to pick up
skills or research something for that project, then learn that, but not go out
of my way to learn something.

Anyways, the one thing I wanted to learn a bit more of was animating stuff. The
Boy picture on the home page uses key frames animation, but here I tried out
`transition` for the first time, and that was surprisingly easy to set up. I
just made a small effect to darken on hover. I'll definitely remember this going
forward as I do like to add more visual cues to frontend changes. Though it's
probably easy to overdo these kinds of things. I think there's an argument to
make things as snappy as possible since that's an immediate response instead
lagging a transition.

Implementing the viewer was more complicated. I've never really built a modal
component from scratch before so there were some odd challenges I faced.
Probably the most annoying was dealing with the scrollbar. To darken the background, I stretch a fixed div over the whole page, but the browser scrollbar can still be seen. When I looked at example implementations (Evergreen/Twitter), it seems like most sites will hide the scrollbar temporary when the modal is open. So that's what I did, and I put some custom styling into the `body` element, while also thinking about scenarios where there are no scrollbars (mobile).

I could have left it at that but I wanted to also add some easier navigation, so I put some buttons in the viewer to go next and back. I think these buttons are a little hard to click and maybe supporting gestures would make navigation easier. My general feedback seems to be that it's too easy to click the dark background and leave the viewer on accident.

There's also probably something seriously wrong with the way leaving the viewer works. Leaving works by clicking the background, but I have a lot of `stopPropagation` calls so that clicking on the navigation buttons or the image or the image caption text doesn't propagate to the background and trigger leaving the viewer. I think this is probably an anti-pattern, if not for maintainable alone but maybe for accessibility. I remember reading briefly on Chakra UI docs that they handle this in a special way. Maybe the correct pattern is to make the background a sibling to the UI elements rather than the parent.

One more thing was handling loading of images. So what most sites will probably do is have a preview image and a larger image, where the preview image is significantly smaller in size so the gallery page can quickly load. I have a bunch of configs set up to basically specify a preview image and main image. The main image only gets loaded in the viewer.

A side note also is that one annoying thing I didn't have a solution for is that sometimes the image caption text will flicker because the image is still being loaded. I tried some things to adjust visibility of the text but overall it's still not good so I reverted it. I think the proper way to handle this is to get the image dimensions beforehand and create like a skeleton image that is loading at the correct width/height. This way the size of the image is always correct and there's no shifting around. I don't think this is easily available in Next.js SSG so I didn't pursue this too much.

Ok I think that's pretty much it. Overall, I think it was a good exercise building this. It took some time to be honest, maybe one to two days. Hopefully I'll have more opportunities to make these kinds of things because it's pretty fun.

<img src="/the-boy.jpg" />
